Who lead work on Codex? Codex is
OpenAI's coding agent. We think of Codex
as just the beginning [music]
of a software engineering teammate. It's
a bit like this really smart intern that
refuses to read Slack, doesn't check
DataDog [music]
unless you ask it to. I remember
Karpathy
>> gnarliest bugs that he runs into that he
just spends hours trying to figure out
nothing else is solved. He gives it to
Codex, lets it run for an hour and it
solves it.
>> Starting to see glimpses of the future
where we're actually starting to have
Codex be on call for its own training.
Codex writes a lot of the code that
helps like manage its training run, the
game infrastructure. And [music] so we
have a Codex code review is like
catching a lot of mistakes. It's
actually caught some like pretty
interesting configuration mistakes. One
of the most mind-blowing examples of
acceleration the Sora Android app, like
a fully new app. We built it in 18 days
and then 10 days later, so 28 days total
we went to the public. How do you think
you win [music] in this space?
>> One of our major goals with Codex is to
get to productivity.
>> If we're going to build a super
assistant, it has to be able to [music]
do things. One of the learnings over the
past year is that for models to do
stuff, they're much more effective when
they can use a computer. It turns out
the best way for models to use computers
[music] is simply to write code. And so
we're kind of getting to this idea where
if you want to build any agent, maybe
you should be building a coding agent.
>> When you think about progress on Codex,
I imagine you have a bunch of evals and
there's all these public benchmarks.
>> A few of us are like constantly on
Reddit. You know, there's a there's
praise up there and there's a lot of
complaints. What we can do as we as a
product team is just try [music] to
always think about how are we building a
tool so that it feels like we're
maximally accelerating people rather
than building a tool that makes it more
unclear what you should do as the human.
>> Being at OpenAI, I can't not ask about
how far you think we are from AGI. The
current under appreciated limiting
[music] factor is literally human typing
speed or human multitasking speed.
Today my guest is Alexander Imbiricos,
product lead for Codex, OpenAI's
incredibly popular and powerful coding
agent. In the words of Nick Turley, head
of ChatGPT and former podcast guest,
Alex is one of my all-time favorite
humans I've ever worked with and
bringing him and his company into OpenAI
ended up being one of the best decisions
we've ever made. Similarly, Kevin Weil,
OpenAI CPO, said Alex is simply the
best. In our conversation, we chat about
what it's truly like to build product at
OpenAI, how Codex allowed the Sora team
to ship the Sora app, which became the
number one app in the App Store in under
1 month. Also, the 20x growth Codex is
seeing right now and what they did to
make it so good at coding, why his team
is now focused on making it easier to
review code, not just write code, his
AGI timelines, his thoughts on when AI
agents will actually be really useful,
and so much more. A huge thank you to Ed
Bay, Nick Turley, and Dennis Yang for
suggesting topics for this conversation.
If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget
to subscribe and follow it in your
favorite podcasting app or YouTube. And
if you become an annual subscriber of my
newsletter, you get a year free of 19
incredible products, including a year
free of Devin, Lovable, Replit, Bolt,
Linear, Superhuman, Descript, Warp,
Granola, Magic Patterns, Raycast,
Jasper, D Mob, and Posthog, and Stripe
Atlas. Head on over to Lenny's
Newsletter.com and click product pass.
With that, I bring you Alexander
Imbiricos after a short word from our
sponsors.
Here's a puzzle for you. What do OpenAI,
Cursor, Perplexity, Vercel, Plaid, and
hundreds of other winning companies have
in common? The answer is they're all
powered by today's sponsor, WorkOS. If
you're building software for
enterprises, you've probably felt the
pain of integrating single sign-on,
SCIM, RBAC, audit logs, and other
features required by big customers.
WorkOS turns those deal blockers into
drop-in APIs with a modern developer
platform built specifically for B2B
SaaS. Whether you're seed stage startup
trying to land your first enterprise
customer or a unicorn expanding
globally, WorkOS is the fastest [music]
path to becoming enterprise ready and
unlocking growth. They're essentially
Stripe for enterprise features. Visit
workos.com to get started or just hit up
their Slack support where they have real
engineers in there who answer your
questions super fast. WorkOS allows you
to build like the best with delightful
APIs, comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to workos.com
to make your app enterprise ready today.
This episode is brought to you by Finn,
the number one AI agent for customer
service. If your customer support
tickets are piling up, then you need
Finn. Finn is the highest performing AI
agent on the market with a 65% average
resolution rate. Finn resolves even the
most complex customer queries. No other
AI agent performs better. In
head-to-head bake-offs with competitors,
Finn wins every time. Yes, switching to
a new tool can be scary, but Finn works
on any help desk with no migration
needed, which means you don't have to
overhaul your current system or deal
with delays in service for your
customers.
>> [music]
>> And Finn is trusted by over 6,000
customer service leaders and top
companies like Anthropic, Shutterstock,
Synthesia, Clay, Vanta, Lovable,
monday.com, and more. And because Finn
is powered by the Finn AI engine, which
is a continuously improving system that
allows you to analyze, train, test, and
deploy with ease, Finn can continuously
improve your results, too. So if you're
ready to transform your customer service
and scale your support, give Finn a try
for only 99 cents per resolution. Plus,
Finn comes with a 90-day money-back
guarantee. Find out how Finn can work
for your team at fin.ai/lenny.
That's fin.ai/lenny.
Alexander, thank you so much for being
here and welcome to the podcast. Thank
you so much. I've been following for
ages and I'm excited to be here. I'm
even more excited. I really appreciate
that.
I'm going to start with your time at
OpenAI.
So you joined OpenAI about a year ago.
Before that, you had your own startup
for about 5 years.
Before that, you were a product manager
at Dropbox.
I imagine OpenAI is very different from
every other place you've worked.
Let me just ask you this. What is most
different about how OpenAI operates and
what's something that you've learned
there that you think you're going to
take with you wherever you go, assuming
you ever leave? By far, I would say the
speed and ambition of working at OpenAI
are just like dramatically more than
what I can imagine. And you know, I
guess it's kind of an embarrassing thing
to say because you you know, everyone
who's a startup founder thinks like, "Oh
yeah, my startup moves super fast and
the talent bar is super high and we're
super ambitious." But I have to say like
working at OpenAI just kind of like made
me reimagine what it what that even
means. We hear this a lot about, you
know, feels like every AI company is
just like, "Oh my god, I can't believe
how fast they're moving."
Is there an example of just like, "Wow,
that wouldn't have happened this quickly
anywhere else?" The most obvious thing
that comes to mind is just like the the
explosive growth of Codex itself.
I think it's wild since we bumped our
thermal number of it, like you know,
it's like the the 10x thing of Codex's
scale was just like super fast in a
matter of months. And it's like well
more since then.
And you know, like once you've lived
through that or at least in speaking for
myself, like having lived through that
now, I feel like anytime I'm going to
spend
my time on like, you know, building tech
product, there's that kind of that speed
and scale that I now need to to to meet.
If I think of like what I was doing at
my startup, it moved like way slower.
And I
you know, there's always this balance
with startups of like how much do you
commit to an idea that you have versus
like find out that it's not working
uh and then pivot. But I think one thing
I've realized at OpenAI is like the the
amount of impact that we can have and in
fact need to have to do a good job is so
high that it is a I have to be like way
more ruthless with how I spend my time
now. Before we get to Codex, is there a
way that they've structured the org or I
don't know, the way that OpenAI operates
that allows the team to move this
quickly? Because everyone everyone wants
to move super fast. I imagine there's a
structural approach to allowing this to
happen. I mean, so one thing is just the
technology
that we're building with has like just
transformed so many things, you know,
from like both how we build, but also
like what kinds of things we can enable
for users.
And you know, we spend most of our time
talking about like the sort of
improvements in the foundation models,
but I I believe that even if we had no
more progress today with models, which
is absolutely not the case, but if even
if we had no more progress,
we are way behind on product. There's so
much more product to build. So I think
like just like the moment is right, if
that makes sense. Mhm. But I think
there's a lot of sort of
counterintuitive things that surprised
me when I arrived as far as like how
things are structured.
One example that comes to mind is like
when I was working at my startup and and
before that when I was at Dropbox, it
was like very important, you know,
especially as a PM to like always kind
of rally the ship and it was kind of
like make sure you're pointed in the
right direction and then you can like
accelerate in that direction.
But here, I think because we don't
exactly know like what capabilities will
even come up soon and we don't know
what's going to work
uh technically and then we also don't
know what's going to land even if it
works technically, it's much more
important for us to be very like humble
and learn a lot more empirically and
just try things quickly. And like the
org is is set up in that way to to be
incredibly bottoms up. You know, this is
again one of those things that like as
you were saying, everyone wants to move
fast. I think everyone likes to say that
they're bottoms up or at least a lot of
people do,
but OpenAI is like truly truly bottoms
up and that's like been a learning
experience for me.
That now like
it it'll be interesting if I ever work
at
I don't think that it'll ever
it'll even make sense to work at a
non-AI company in the future. I don't
even know what that means. But if I were
to imagine it or go back in time, I
think I would like run things totally
different. What I'm hearing is kind of
this ready
fire aim is the approach more than ready
aim fire. And there's something
and as you process that cuz that may not
come across well, but I actually have
heard this a lot at AI companies is
because you don't know and Nick Turley
shared I think the same sentiment.
Because you don't know how people will
use it, it doesn't make sense to spend a
lot of time making it perfect. It's
better to just get it out there in a
primordial way, see how people use it,
and then go big on that use case. Yeah.
It's like to to okay, to use this
analogy a little bit, I feel like there
there is an aim component, but the aim
component is much fuzzier. You know,
it's kind of like roughly
what do we think can happen? Like
someone um I've learned a ton from
working here is a is a research lead and
he likes to say that like at OpenAI,
we can you can have really good
conversations about something that's
like a year plus from now.
And you know, there's a lot of ambiguity
in what will happen, but but like that's
a right sort of timeline. And then we
can have really good conversations about
what's happening like in like low months
or low or weeks.
But there's kind of this like awkward
middle ground, which is like as you
start approaching a year, but you're not
at a year where it's like very difficult
to reason about, right? And so as far as
like aiming, I think we want to know
like, okay, what are some of the futures
that we're trying to build towards? And
like a lot of the problems we're dealing
with in AI like such as alignment or
problems you need to be thinking out
like really far out into the future.
So we're kind of aiming fuzzily there.
But when it comes down to the more
tactically like, oh yeah, like what
product will we build and therefore how
will people use that product? That's the
place where we're much more like, let's
find out empirically. That's a good way
of putting it.
Something else that when people hear
this,
they
people sometimes hear companies like
yours saying, okay, we're going to be
bottoms-up, we're going to try a bunch
of stuff, we're not going to have
exactly a plan of where it's going in
the next few months. The key is you'll
hire the best people in the world. And
so that feels like a really key
ingredient in order to be this
successful at bottoms-up work. And just
supervising basically. Um
I was just like, again, surprised or
even shocked when I arrived at like the
level of like individual like drive and
like
autonomy that everyone here has.
So I think like
the way that Open AI runs like many you
can't like read this or be on the listen
to a podcast and go like, I am I'm just
going to deploy this to my company.
Um you know, maybe this is a harsh thing
to say, but I think like yeah, very few
companies have the talent caliber to be
able to do that.
So it might need to be like
adjusted if you were going to implement
this. Okay, so let's talk Codex. You
lead work on Codex. How's Codex going?
What numbers can you share? Is there
anything you can share there? Also just
not everyone knows exactly what Codex
is. Explain what Codex is.
Totally, yeah. So I had the very lucky
job of of living in the future and
leading products on Codex.
Um and Codex is
Open AI's coding agent. So super
concretely that means it's an IDE
extension, like a VS Code extension,
uh that you can install or terminal tool
that you can install. And when you do
so,
you can then basically pair with Codex
to answer questions about code, write
code,
uh you know, run tests, execute code,
and do a bunch of the work in sort of
that like thick middle section of the
software development life cycle,
which is all about uh you know, writing
code that you're going to get into
production.
Uh more broadly,
we think of Codex as like it's the what
it currently is is just the beginning of
a software engineering teammate.
And so, you know, when we when you when
we use a big word like teammate, like
some of the things we're imagining are
that it's not only able to to write
code, but actually it participates like
early on in like the ideation and
planning phases of writing software, and
then further downstream in terms of like
validation, deploying, and like
maintaining code.
To make that a little more fun, like one
thing I like to imagine is like if you
think of what Codex is today, it's a bit
like this like really smart intern that
like refuses to read Slack, and like
doesn't check DataDog or like Sentry
unless you ask it to. And so like no
matter how smart it is, like how much
you're going to trust it to write code
without you also working with it, right?
So that's how people use it mostly today
is they pair with it.
But we want to get to the point where,
you know, it can work
like just like a new intern that you
hire, and you don't only ask them to
write code, but you ask them to
participate across the cycle. And so you
know that like even if they don't get
something right the first try, they're
eventually going to be able to iterate
their way there. I thought the way
I thought the point about not reading
Slack and DataDog was it's just not
distracted, it's just constantly
focused, and is always in flow. But I
get what you're saying there is it
doesn't have all the context on
everything that's going on.
And like that's not only true when it's
performing a task, but again, if you
think of like the best human teammates,
like you don't tell them what to do.
Right? Like maybe when you first hire
them, you have like a couple meetings
and you're like, hey, like you kind of
learn like, okay, this is this these
prompts work for this teammate, these
prompts don't, right? This is how to
communicate with this person. Then
eventually you give them some starter
tasks, you delegate a few tasks. But
then eventually you just say like, hey,
great, okay, you're working with this
set of people in this area of the code
base.
You know, feel free to work with other
people in other parts of the code base
too, even. And uh yeah, you tell me what
you think makes sense to be done.
Right? And so, you know, we think of
this is like proactivity, and like one
of our major goals with Codex is to like
get to proactivity.
I think this is
this is like critically important to
like achieve the mission of Open AI,
which is to deliver the benefits of AGI
to all humanity. You know, I like to
joke today that like AI products, and
it's it's a half joke,
they're actually like really hard to
use,
because you have to like be very
thoughtful about
when it could help you. And if you're
not prompting a model to help you, it's
probably not helping you at that time.
And if you think of how many times like
the average user is prompting AI today,
it's probably like tens of times. But if
you think of how many times people could
actually get benefit from a really
intelligent entity, it's thousands of
times per day. And so a large a large
part of our our goal with Codex is to
figure out like, what is the shape of an
actual teammate agent that is sort of
helpful by default? When people think
about Cursor and even Cloud Code, it's
like IDE that helps you code and kind of
auto-completes code and maybe does some
agentic work. What I'm hearing here is
the vision is is different, which is
it's a teammate. It's like a remote
teammate
building code for you that you talk to
and ask to do things. And it also does a
IDE auto-complete and things like that.
Is that is that a kind of a
differentiator in the way you think
about Codex? It's basically this idea
that like
we want the way like if you're a
developer and you're trying to get
something done, we want you to just feel
like you have superpowers and you're
able to move much, much faster. But we
don't think that in order for you to
reap those benefits,
you need to be sitting there constantly
thinking about like, how can I invoke AI
at this point to do this thing? We want
you to be able to sort of like plug it
in to the way that you work and have it
just start to do stuff without you
having to think about it. Okay, I have a
lot of questions on these lines, but
just how's it going? Is there any stats,
any numbers you can share about how
Codex is doing? Yeah, it's been Codex
has been growing like absolutely
explosively
since the launch of GPT-5 back in
August. Um listen, definitely some
interesting like product insights to
talk about as to like how we unlocked
that growth if you're interested. But
again, the last the last thought we
shared there was like we were like well
over 10x
since August. In fact, it's been like
20x since then.
Um also, the Codex models are serving
many many trillions of tokens a week
now, and it's basically like our most
served coding model. Um one of the
really cool things that we've seen is
that
the way that we decided to set up the
Codex team
uh was to build a you know, a really
tightly integrated
product and research team that are
iterating on the model and the harness
together.
And it turns out that lets you just do a
lot more and try many more experiments
as to how these things will work
together.
And so, we were just training these
models for use in our first-party
harness that we were very opinionated
about.
And then what we've started to see more
recently actually is that other major
sort of API coding customers are now
starting to adopt these models as well.
And so we've reached a point where
actually the Codex model is the most
served coding model in the API as well.
You uh hinted at this
what unlocked this growth. I am
extremely interested in hearing that. It
felt like before, I don't know, maybe
this was before you joined the team. It
just felt like Cloud Code was killing
it. Just everyone was sitting on top of
Cloud Code. It was by far the best way
to code. And then all of a sudden Codex
comes around. I remember Karpathy
tweeted that he just like has never seen
a model like this.
I think the tweet was the gnarlies bugs
that he runs into that he just spends
hours trying to figure out, nothing else
has solved. He gives it to Codex, lets
it run for an hour, and it solves it.
What did what did you guys do? We have
the strong sort of mission here at Open
AI to, you know, basically to build AGI.
Um and so we we think a lot about what
how can we shape the product so that it
can scale?
Right? You know, earlier I was
mentioning like, hey, like if you're an
engineer, you should be getting help
from an from AI like thousands of times
per day, right? And so
we thought a lot about the primitives
for that when we launched our first
version of Codex,
uh which was Codex Cloud.
And that was basically a product that
had its own computer, lived in the
cloud, you could delegate to it.
And you know, the sort of the coolest
part about that was you could run many,
many tasks in parallel.
But some of the challenges that we saw
are that it's a little bit harder to set
that up both in terms of like
environment configuration, like giving
the model the tools it needs to validate
its changes, and to learn how to prompt
in that way. And sort of my my analogy
for this is going back to this teammate
analogy. It's like if you hired a
teammate, but you're never allowed to
get on a call with them, and you can
only go back and forth, you know,
asynchronously
over time. Like that works for some
teammates.
And eventually that's actually how you
want to spend most of your time, so
that's still the future. But it's hard
to initially adopt.
And so we still have that vision of like
that's what we're trying to get you to,
a teammate that you delegate to and then
is proactive. And we're seeing that
growing, but
the key unlock is actually first you
need to land with users in a way that's
like much more intuitive and like
trivial to get value from.
So the way that most people discover
like the vast majority of users discover
Codex today is either they download an
IDE extension, or they run it in their
CLI, and the agent works there with you
on your computer interactively.
And uh it works within a sandbox, which
is actually like a really cool piece of
tech to to help that be safe and secure.
But it has access to all those
dependencies.
So if the agent needs to do something,
like it needs to run a command, it can
do so within the sandbox, we don't have
to set up any environment. And if it's a
command that doesn't work in the
sandbox, it can just ask you. And so you
can get into this like really strong
feedback loop using the model. And then
over time like our team's job is to like
help
turn that feedback loop into you sort of
as a byproduct of using the product
configuring it so that you can then be
delegating to it down the line. And
again, analogy,
you know, keep going back to it, but
like if you hire a teammate and you ask
them to do work, but they you just give
them like a fresh computer from the
store,
it's going to be hard for them to do
their job, right? But if as you work
with them side by side, you could be
like, oh, you don't have a password for
this service we use. Here's the password
for this service. You know, yeah, don't
worry. Feel free to run this command."
Then it's like much easier for them to
then go off and do work for hours
without you. So, what I'm hearing is the
initial version of Codex was almost too
far in the future. It's like a remote in
the cloud uh agent that's coding for you
asynchronously. And what you did is,
okay, let's actually come back a little
bit. Let's integrate into the way
engineers already integrate into IDEs
and locally
and help them kind of on-ramp to this
new world. Totally. And this is it was
quite interesting because
we we dogfood product a ton at OpenAI.
So, you know, dogfood we as in we use
our own product. And so, Codex has been
accelerating OpenAI
over the course of the entire year and
the cloud product was a massive
accelerator to the company as well.
Um
it just turns out that this is one of
those places where the signal we got
from dogfooding is a little bit
different from the signal you get from
like the general market because at
OpenAI, you know, we train reasoning
models all day and so, we're very used
to this kind of prompting and like, you
know, think up front, run things
massively in parallel.
And uh you know, it will take some time
and then come back to it later
asynchronously. And so, you know, now
when we build, we still get a a ton of
signal from dogfooding internally, but
uh you know, we're also very cognizant
of like the different ways that
different audiences use the product.
>> That's really funny. It's like live in
the future, but maybe not too far in the
future. And I could see how everyone at
OpenAI is living very far in the future
and sometimes that won't that won't work
for everyone. Yeah.
What about just like uh intelligence,
training data? I don't know. Is there
something else that helped Codex
accelerate its ability to actually code?
Is it like better, cleaner data? Is it
more just models advancing? Is there
anything else that really helped it
accelerate? Yeah, so there's like a few
components here. Um
I guess, you know, you were mentioning
models and the models have improved a
ton. In fact, um just last Wednesday, we
shipped GPT-5.1 Codex Max.
A very, you know, accurately named
model. Uh
that is that is awesome. It is awesome
both because it is um for any given task
that you were using GPT-5.1 Codex for,
it's like, you know, roughly uh 30%
faster at accomplishing that task.
But also, it unlocks a ton of
intelligence. So, if you use it at our
higher reasoning levels, it's just like
even smarter. Um and you know, that that
feedback that or that tweet you were
saying like Karpathy made about like,
"Hey, give this your gnarly bugs." like,
you know, obviously there's a a ton
going on in the market right now, but
like Codex Max is definitely like
carrying that mantle of uh you know,
tackling the hardest bugs. Um so, that
is
that is super cool. But, I will say it's
like
some of what how we're thinking about
this is evolving a little bit from being
like, "Yeah, we're just going to think
about the model and like let's just like
train the best model." to really
thinking about like what is an agent
actually overall.
Right?
And you know, I'm not going to try to
define agent exactly, but at least the
stack that we think of it as having is
just like you have this model,
really smart reasoning model,
that knows how to do a specific kind of
task really well, so we can talk about
how we make that possible. But then
actually, we need to serve that model
through an API into a harness and both
of those things also have a really big
role here. So, for instance,
one of the things
that we're really proud of is you can
have GPT-5.1 Codex Max work for really
long periods of time. That's not like
normal, but you can set it up to do that
or that might happen. But now routinely
we'll hear about people saying like,
"Yeah, it ran like overnight." or it ran
for 24 hours. And so, you know, for a
model to work continuously for that
amount of time, it's going to exceed its
context window. And so, we have a
solution for that which we call
compaction.
Um
that compaction is actually a feature
that uses like all three layers of that
stack. So,
you need to have a model that has a
concept of compaction and knows like,
"Okay, as I start to approach its
context window, I might be asked to like
prepare to be run in a new context
window." And then at the API layer, you
need an API that like understands this
concept and like has an endpoint that
you can hit to do this change. And at
the harness layer, you need a harness
that can like prepare the payload for
this to be done. And so, like shipping
this compaction feature that now just
like made this behavior possible to like
anyone using Codex, actually meant
working across all three things and I
think that's like increasingly going to
be true. Another maybe like
under-appreciated version of this is is
if you think about all the different
coding products out there, they all have
like very different tool harnesses with
like very different opinions on how the
model should work.
And so, if you want to train a model to
be good at like all the different ways
uh it could work, like, you know, maybe
you have a strong opinion that it should
work using semantic search. Right? Maybe
like call the spoke tools. Or maybe you
have like in our case a strong opinion
that it should just use like the shell,
work in the terminal.
You know, you can be much you can move
much faster if you're just optimizing
for one of those worlds. Right? And so,
the way that we built Codex is that it
just uses the shell, but in order to
make that like safer and secure, we have
a sandbox that the model is used to
operating in.
So, I think one of the biggest
accelerators to go all the way back to
your to your answer question is just
like we're building all three things in
parallel and like kind of tuning each
one and um you know, constantly
experimenting with how those things work
with like a tightly integrated product
and research team.
How do you think you win in this space?
Do you think it it'll even it'll always
be this kind of like race with other
models constantly kind of leapfrogging
each other? Do you think there's a world
where someone just runs away with it and
no one else can ever catch up? Is there
like a path to just we win? Again, comes
back to this idea of like building a
teammate.
And
not just a teammate that, you know, uh
participates in team planning and
prioritization. Not just a teammate
that,
you know, really tests its code and like
helps you maintain and deploy it.
But even a teammate, you know, like if
you think again, an engineering
teammate, they can also like schedule a
calendar invite, right? Or move standup.
Or do whatever, right? And so,
in my mind,
if we just imagine that
every day or every week some like crazy
new capability is just going to be
deployed by a research lab, it's just
impossible for us like, you know, as
humans to keep up and like use all this
technology. And so, I think we need to
get to this world where
you kind of just have like
an AI teammate or a super assistant that
you just talk to and it just knows how
to be helpful like on its own.
Right? And so, you don't you don't have
to be like reading the latest tips for
how to use it and you just like you plug
it in and it just provides help.
And so, that's kind of the shape of what
I think we're building and I think that
will be like a very sticky like winning
product if we can do so. So, the shape
that I'm in my head at least I have is
that we build, you know, maybe a fun
topic is like is chat the right
interface for AI? I think chat is a very
good interface
when you don't know what you're supposed
to use it for.
Uh in the same way that if I think of
like I'm like on a Teams or in Slack
with a teammate, chat is pretty good. I
can ask for whatever I want, right? It's
like kind of the common denominator for
everything. So, you can chat with a
super assistant about whatever topic you
want, whether it be coding or not.
And then if
you are like a functional expert in a
specific domain such as coding, there's
like a GUI
that you can pull up to go really deep
and like look at the code and like work
with the code. So, I think like what we
need to build as OpenAI is basically
this idea of like you have chat,
ChatGPT, and that is a tool that's like
ubiquitously available to like everyone.
You start using it even like outside of
work, right? To just help you. You
become very comfortable with the idea of
being accelerated with AI. And so, then
you get to work and you just can
naturally just, yeah, I'm just going to
ask it for this and I don't need to know
about all the connectors or like all the
different features. I'm just going to
ask it for help and it'll surface to me
the the best way that it can help at
this point in time. And maybe even chime
in when I didn't ask it for help.
Um so, in my mind if we can get to that,
I think that's, you know, that's how we
we really build like the winning
product. This is so interesting because
at with the my chat with Nick Charney,
the head of ChatGPT, I think he shared
that the original name for ChatGPT was
super assistant or something like that.
Yeah. And it's interesting that there's
like that approach to the super
assistant and then there's this Codex
approach. It's almost like the B2C
version and the B2B version.
And what I'm hearing is the idea here
is, okay, you start with coding and
building and then it's doing all this
other stuff for you, scheduling
meetings, I don't know, probably posting
in Slack. Uh I don't know, shipping
designs. I don't know. Is that Is the
idea there this is like the the business
version of ChatGPT in a sense or is
there or or is there something else
there?
Yeah, so you know, so we're getting to
the like
the like one-year time horizon
conversation. A lot of this might happen
sooner, but in terms of fuzziness, I
think we're at the one-year. So, I'll
give you like
a contention and like a plausible way to
get there, but as for how it happens,
who knows. So, basically,
if we're going to build a super
assistant, it has to be able to do
things,
right? So, like we're going to have a
model and it's going to be able to do
stuff affecting your world.
And one of the learnings I think we've
seen over the past year or so is that
for models to do stuff, they're much
more effective when they can use a
computer.
Right? Okay. So, now we're like, "Okay,
we need the super assistant that can use
a computer." Right? Or many computers.
And now the question is, okay, well, how
should it use the computer?
Right? And there's lots of ways to use a
computer. Uh you know, you could try to
hack the OS and like use accessibility
APIs. Maybe a bit easier is you could
point and click.
That's a little slow, you know, and
unpredictable sometimes.
Um and another way, it turns out the
best way for models to use computers is
simply to write code.
Right? And so, we're kind of getting to
this idea where like, "Well, if you want
to build any agent, maybe you should be
building a coding agent." And maybe
to the user, a non-technical user, they
won't even know they're using a coding
agent the same way that no one thinks
about are they using the internet or
not. It's just they're more just like,
"Is Wi-Fi on?"
Right? So,
I think that what we're doing with Codex
is we're building a software engineering
teammate and as part of that, we're kind
of building an agent that can use uh a
computer by writing code. And so, we're
already seeing like some pull for this.
It's like quite early, but we're
starting to see people like who are
using Codex for like coding-adjacent
product purposes.
And so, as that develops, I think we'll
just naturally see that like, "Oh, it
turns out like we should just always
have the agent write code if there is a
coding way to solve a problem instead of
you know, even if you're doing in
financial analysis, right? Like maybe
write some code for that. So basically
like you know, you were like, hey, is
this like the two ends of of
of this product for the super assistant,
right? Of ChatGPT. In my mind like just
coding is a core competency of any agent
including ChatGPT. And so like what
really what we think we're building is
like that competency. But so here's
here's like the really cool thing about
agents writing code is that you can
import code.
Right? Code is like composable.
Interoperable.
Right? Cuz if if we you know, one very
reductive view we could have for an
agent is it's just going to be given a
computer and it's just going to like
point and click and and you know,
go around. But
you know, that is the future and then
how we get there is difficult to sort of
chart a path because a lot of the
questions around building agents aren't
like can the agent do it, but it's more
about well,
how can we help the agent understand the
context that it's working in and like
the team that's using it, you know,
probably has a way that they like to do
things. They have guidelines. They
probably want certain deterministic
guarantees about what the agent can or
cannot do.
Or they want to know that the agent
understands sort of this detail. Like an
example would be,
you know, if we're looking at a crash
reporting tool hitting a connector for
it,
every sub-team is probably has a
different meta prompt for like how they
want the crashes to be analyzed.
Right? And so we start to get to this
thing where like, yeah, we have this
agent sitting in front of a computer,
but we need to make that configurable
for the team or for the user, right? And
let them like
stuff that the agent does often, we
probably just want to like build in as a
competency that this agent has that it
can do. So
I think
we end up with this generalizable thing
that you were saying of like an agent
that can just write its own scripts for
whatever it wants to do.
But I think that the the really key part
here is can we make it so that
everything that the agent has to do
often or that it does well, we can just
like remember and store
so that the agent doesn't have to write
a script for that again, right? Or maybe
like if I just joined a team and you are
already on the same team as me,
I can just like use all those scripts
that the agents have written already.
Yeah, it's like if this is our teammate,
we can they can share things that it's
learned from working with other people
at the company. Just makes sense as a
metaphor.
Yeah. It feels like you're in the
Karpathy camp of agents today are not
that great and mostly slop and maybe in
the future they'll be awesome. Does that
resonate?
I think so I think coding agents are
pretty great. I think
Uh that's right. Yeah.
>> Yep. And then I think like agent side
outside of coding, it's still like very
early.
And you know, this is just my opinion,
but I think they're going to get a whole
lot better once they can use coding to
and like in a composable way. Mhm.
This is it's kind of the fun part of
like when you're building for software
engineers. Like I
in my setup we were building for
software engineers too for a lot of that
journey and they're just such a fun
audience to build for because
you know, they also like building for
themselves and are often like even more
creative than we are in thinking about
how to use the technology.
Um and so like by building for software
engineers, you get to just observe a ton
of emergent behaviors and like
things that you should do and build into
the product.
I love how you you say that cuz a lot of
people building for engineers get really
annoyed cuz the engineers are so they're
just always complaining about stuff.
They're like, ah, this sucks. Why did
you build it this way?
I love that you enjoy it, but I think
it's probably because you're building
such an amazing tool for engineers that
can actually solve problems
and just you know, code for them.
Um kind of along those lines, you know,
there's always this talk of
what will happen to jobs, coding, do you
have to learn coding, all these things?
Clearly the way you're describing it is
it's a teammate. It's going to work with
you making more superhuman. It's not
going to replace you. What's the way you
just think about the impact on the field
of engineering having this super
intelligent engineering teammate? I
think there's there's two sides to it,
but the one we were just talking about
is this idea that maybe every agent
should actually use code and be a coding
agent.
And in my mind that's just like a small
part of this like broader idea that
like, hey, as we make code even more
ubiquitous. I mean, you could probably
claim it's ubiquitous today even pre-AI,
right? And as you make code even more
ubiquitous, it's actually just going to
be used for many more purposes.
And so there's just going to be a ton
more need for people with this like
humans with this competency.
So
that's my view. I think this is like
quite a complex topic. So you know, you
know, it's something we talk about a lot
and we have to kind of see how it pans
out, but I think what we can do
what we can do basically as a product
team building in the space is just try
to always think about how are we
building a tool so that it feels like
we're like maximally accelerating
uh people.
You know, rather than building a tool
that makes it like more unclear what you
should do as the human. Right? Like I
think like to
to you know, give an example right now
like
nowadays when you work with a coding
agent, um it writes a ton of code, but
it turns out writing code is actually
one of the most fun parts of software
engineering for many software engineers.
And so then you end up reviewing AI
code.
Right? And that's often a less fun part
of the job for many software engineers,
right? And so I actually think like we
see that like this this comes out plays
out all the time in like a ton of micro
decisions and so we as a product team
are always thinking about like, okay,
how do we make this more fun? How do we
make you feel more empowered? Where is
this not working? And I would argue that
like reviewing agent written code is
like a place that
today is like less fun and so you know,
then I think, okay, what can we do about
that? Well, we can ship a code review
feature that like helps you both
confidence the AI written code. Okay,
cool.
You know, another thing we could do is
we can make it so that the agent's like
better able to validate its work.
And you know, it it gets all the way
down into like micro decisions. Like if
you're going to have the an agent
capability to validate work and let's
say you have like I'm thinking of Codex
web right now. Like you have a a pane
that sort of reflects the work the agent
did. What do you see first? Do you see
the diff or do you see the image preview
of the code it wrote?
Right? And you know, I think if you're
thinking about this from perspective
like, how do I empower the human? How do
I make them feel like as as accelerated
as possible? Like you obviously see the
image first, right? You shouldn't be
reviewing the code unless first you
know, you've seen the image unless it's
maybe it's been like reviewed by an AI
and now it's time for you to take a
look. When I had Michael Turalda, CEO of
Cursor on the podcast, he had this kind
of vision of us moving to something
beyond code.
And I've seen this rise of something
called spec driven development where you
kind of just write the spec and then the
code, you know, the AI writes the code
for you and so you kind of start working
at this higher abstraction level.
Is that something you see where we're
going? Just like engineers not having to
actually write code or look at code and
there's going to be this higher level of
abstraction that we focus on.
Yeah, I mean, I think
I think there's like constantly these
levels of abstraction and they're
actually already played out today.
Right? Like today like coding agents
mostly it's like prompt to patch.
Right? We're starting to see people
doing like spec driven development or
like plan driven development. That's
actually one of the ways people ask
like, hey, how do you run Codex on a
really long task? Well, it's like often
collaborate with it first to write like
a plan.md like a markdown file that's
your plan.
And once you're happy with that, then
you ask it to to go off and do work and
if that plan has verifiable steps, it'll
like work for much longer.
Um so we're totally seeing that.
I think spec driven development is like
an interesting idea. It's not clear to
me that it'll work out that way cuz a
lot of people don't write like don't
like writing specs either.
But it it seems plausible that some some
people will work that way. You know,
like uh
a bit of a joke idea though is like if
you think of like
um the way that many teams work today,
they're they often like don't
necessarily have specs, but the team is
just really self-driven and so stuff
just gets done and so almost that is
like I'm coming up with this on the
spot. So it's you know, not a good name,
but like chatter driven development.
Where it's just like stuff is happening,
you know, on social media and like in
your team communications tools and then
as a result like code gets written and
deployed.
Right? So
yeah, I think I'm a little bit more
oriented in that way of
you know, I don't even necessarily want
to have to write a spec. Like sometimes
I want to only if I like writing specs.
Right?
Other times I might just want to say
like, hey, here's like the customer, you
know, service channel and like tell me
what's interesting to know, but if it's
a small bug, just fix it. I don't want
to have to write a spec for that,
I have this sort of
uh hypothetical future
uh that I like to share with sometimes
with people as a provocation which is
like in a world where we have like truly
amazing agents, like what does it look
like to be a solopreneur?
Um
and uh you know, one terrible idea for
how it could look is that it's actually
is a mobile app. And um every idea that
it the agent has to do is just like
vertical video on your phone.
And then you can like swipe left if you
think it's a bad idea and you can like
swipe right if it's a good idea and like
you can press and hold and like speak to
your phone if you want to give feedback
on the idea before you swipe.
You know, and in this world like
basically what your job is just like
plug in this app into like every single
like signal system, you know, system of
record and then you just sort of sit
back and like swipe. I don't know. I
love this. So this is like Tinder meets
TikTok meets Codex. It's pretty
terrible. No, this is great. So the idea
here is this thing is this agent is
watching and right listening to you,
paying attention to the market, your
users and it's like, well, I hear
something I should do. It's like a
proactive engineer. Just like, here, we
should build this feature or fix this
thing.
Exactly. I think it's a really good
idea. Communicating with you in like the
lowest like effort way.
>> the gyms, like the the modern way we
communicate.
Yeah, swipe left or right and in
vertical feed. And then the Sora video.
Okay, I see how this all connects now. I
see.
>> Yeah, to be clear, we're not building
that, but like, you know, it's a fun
idea. I mean, you can see now like in
this example though, like one of the
things that it's doing is it's consuming
external signals, right? I think the
other really interesting thing is like
if we think about like what is the most
successful like
AI product to date?
Um
I would argue um funny actually not to
confuse things at all, but like with the
first time we used in the the brand
Codex at OpenAI was actually the model
powering GitHub Copilot. This is like
way back in the day years ago.
Uh so we decided to reuse that that
brand recently um cuz it's just so good.
You know, Codex, code execution. But
I think actually like
auto completion in IDEs is like one of
the most successful AI products today.
And part of what's so magical about it
is that
when the it can surface like ideas for
helping you
really rapidly.
When it's right, you're accelerated.
When it's wrong, it's not like that
annoying. It can be annoying, but it's
not that annoying. Right? And so you can
create this like mixed initiative system
that's like contextually responding to
like what you're attempting to do.
And so in my mind, this is like
a really interesting thing for us as
OpenAI as we're building.
So for instance, you know, when I think
about launching a browser, which we did
with Atlas, right? Like in my mind,
one of the really interesting things we
can then do is we can then like
contextually surface like ways that we
can help you as you're going about your
day. Right? And so we break out of this
like
you know, we're just looking at code or
we're just in your terminal um into this
idea that like, "Hey, like a real
teammate is dealing with a lot more than
just code, right? They're dealing with a
lot of things that are web content." So
like,
you know, how can we help you with that?
Man, there's so much there. I love this.
Okay, so auto complete on web with the
browser, that's so interesting. Just
like here's all the things that
we can help you with as you're browsing
and
going about your day. I want to talk
about Atlas. I'll come back to that. Uh
Codex, code execution, did not know
that. That's really clever.
I I get it now. Okay, and then this
chatter. What is a chatter driven
development? Uh I had a No, this is a
really good idea. But it reminds me I
had John G Donji on the podcast, CTO of
Block, and they they have this product
called Goose, which is their own
internal agent
thing. And he talked about an engineer
at Block just uh has Goose watch him
with like his screen and listens to
every meeting and proactively does work
that he should probably want to do. So
ships a PR, sends an email, drafts a
Slack message. So he's doing exactly
what you're describing in in kind of a
very early way.
Yeah, that's super interesting. And you
know, I bet you the so if we go if we
went and asked them what the bottleneck
to that productivity is, did did they
share what it is? Uh probably looking at
it and just making sure this is the
right the right thing to do. Yeah.
Yeah, so like we see this now. Like we
have a Slack integration for Codex.
People love, you know, if there's like
something that you need to do quickly,
people will just like at mention Codex.
Like, "Why do you think this bug is
happening?" Right? Doesn't have to be an
engineer. Even like maybe, you know,
data scientists often in here are using
Codex a ton to just like answer
questions. Like, "Why do you think this
metric moved? What happened?"
So questions, you know, you get the
answer right back in Slack, it's
amazing, super useful.
But when it's as for when it's writing
code,
then you have to go back and look at the
code.
Right? And so
the real like I think bottleneck right
now is like validating that the code
worked and like writing code review.
So in my mind, if we wanted to get to
something like you know, the friend you
were talking about's world, I think we
we really need to figure out how to get
people to configure their coding agents
to be much more autonomous on those
later stages of the work. It makes
sense. Like you said, writing code I
used to be an engineer, I was an
engineer for 10 years. Really fun to
write code, really fun to just get in
the flow, build, architect, test.
Not so fun to look at everyone else's
code and just have to go through and be
on the hook if it is doing something
dumb that's going to take down
production. And now that building has
become easier, what I've always heard
from companies that are really at the
cutting edge of this is the bottleneck
is now like figuring out what to build
and then it's at the end of like a Okay,
we have all this all 100 PRs to review.
Who's going to go through all that?
Right. Yeah.
This episode is brought to you by Jira
Product Discovery. The hardest part of
building products isn't actually
building products. It's everything else.
It's proving that the work matters,
managing stakeholders, trying to plan
ahead. Most teams spend more time
reacting than learning, chasing updates,
justifying roadmaps, and constantly
unblocking work to keep things moving.
Jira Product Discovery puts you back in
control. With Jira Product Discovery,
you can capture insights and prioritize
high impact ideas. It's flexible, so it
adapts to the way your team works and
helps you build a roadmap that drives
alignment, not questions. And because
it's built on Jira, you can track ideas
from strategy to delivery, all in one
place. Less chasing, more time to think,
learn, and build the right thing. Get
Jira Product Discovery for free at
atlassian.com/lenny.
That's atlassian.com/lenny.
What is the impact of Codex been on the
way you operate as a product person as a
PM? It's clear how engineering is
impacted. Uh
code is written for you.
What has it done to the way you operate
in the way PMs operate at at OpenAI?
Yeah, I mean I think mostly I just feel
like much more empowered.
Um
I've always been sort of more technical
leaning PM. And especially when I'm
working on products for engineers, I
feel like it's necessary to like, you
know, dogfood the product. But even
beyond that, I I I just feel like I can
do much much more
as a PM. And uh you know, Scott Belsky
talks about this idea of like
compressing the talent stack. I'm not
sure if I'm phrased that right.
But it's basically this idea that like
maybe the boundaries between these roles
are a little bit like less needed than
before because people can just do much
more. And every time you someone can do
more, you can like skip one
communication boundary and make the team
like that much more efficient.
Right? So I think
I think we see it
you know, in a bunch of functions now,
but I guess since you asked about like
product specifically,
uh you know, now like answering
questions much much easier. You you
know, just ask Codex for thoughts on
that. Uh a lot of like PM type work,
understanding what's changing, again,
just ask Codex for help with that. Um
prototyping is often faster than writing
specs. This is something that a lot of
people have talked about.
I think something that
I don't think it's super surprising, but
something that's slightly surprising is
like we see
like we're mostly building Codex for to
write code that's going to be deployed
to production.
But actually we see a lot of throwaway
code written with Codex now. It's kind
of going back to this idea of like, you
know, ubiquitous code.
So you'll see
uh you know, someone wants to do an
analysis. Like if I want to understand
something, it's like, "Okay, just give
Codex a bunch of data, but then ask it
to build like an interactive like data
viewer for this data." Right? You would
That's just like too annoying to do in
the past, but now it's just like totally
worth the time of just getting an agent
to go do something.
Um
similarly, I've seen like some pretty
cool prototypes on our design team about
like if you want to
well, like a designer basically wanted
to build an animation.
And this is the coin animation in Codex.
And it was like normally it'd be too
annoying to program this animation, so
they just vibe coded a animation editor.
And then they use the animation editor
to build the animation, which they then
checked into the repo.
Actually, our designers are there's a
ton of acceleration there and like
speaking of compressing the talent
stack, I think our designers are very
PM-y.
So, you know, they they do a ton of
product work and like they actually have
like an entire like vibe coded sort of
side prototype
of the Codex app. And so a lot of how we
talk about things is like we'll have
like a really quick jam cuz there's like
10,000 things going on. And then the
designer will like go think about how
this should work, but instead of like
talking about it again, they'll just
like vibe code a prototype of that in
their like standalone prototype. We'll
play with it. If we like it, they'll
vibe code that prototype into or vibe
engineer that prototype into an actual
PR to land. And then depending on their
comfort with the code base, like Codex
UI is in Rust, that's a little harder.
Maybe they'll like land it themselves or
they'll like get close and then an
engineer can help them like land the PR.
Um
you know, we recently shipped the Sora
Android app.
Um and uh that was one of the most sort
of
mind-blowing examples of acceleration
actually cuz the usage of Codex
internally at OpenAI is obviously really
really high, but it's been growing uh
over the course of the year both in
terms of like now it's basically like
all technical staff use it. Uh but even
like the intensity and know-how of how
to make the most of coding agents has
gone up by a ton. And so the Sora
Android app, right? Like a fully new
app,
we built it
in 18 days. It went from like zero to
launch to employees. And then 10 days
later, so 28 days total, we went to just
like GA to the public.
And that was done just like with the
help of Codex.
So pretty insane velocity. I would say
it was like a little bit
I don't want to say easy mode, but there
is one thing that Codex is really good
at if you're a company that's like
building software on multiple platforms.
So you've already figured out like some
of the underlying like APIs or systems.
Asking Codex to sit like to port things
over is really effective cuz it has like
something it can go look at. And so the
engineers on that team
uh were basically having Codex
go look at the iOS app, produce plans of
work that needed to be done, and then go
implement those. And it was kind of
looking at iOS and Android at the same
time. And so, you know, basically it was
like 2 weeks to launch to employees, 4
weeks total.
Insanely fast. What makes that even more
insane is it was the it became the
number one app in the App Store.
I don't
this just boggles the mind. Okay, so
Yeah, so imagine there's the number one
app in the App Store with like a handful
of engineers.
Uh I think it was like
two or three possibly
uh
in a handful of weeks.
Yeah.
This is absurd.
So
yeah, so that's a really fun um
example of acceleration and then like
Atlas is the other one that I think
Ben did a podcast the the the
engine on Atlas
uh sharing a little bit about how we
built there.
You know, many Atlas is is actually I
mean it's a it's a browser, right? And
building a browser is really hard. Um
and so
we uh
had to build a lot of difficult systems
in order to do that. And basically we
got to the point where that team has a
ton of power users of Codex
right now. And
you know, got to the point where they
they were basically we you know, we were
talking to them about it cuz a lot of
those engineers are people I I to work
with uh before at my startup. And so
they'd say, you know, before this would
have taken us like 2 to 3 weeks for two
to three engineers.
And now it's like one engineer, one
week.
Um so, massive acceleration there as
well. And what's quite cool is that uh
you know, we we shipped Atlas on on Mac
first, but now we're working on the
Windows version.
You know, that So, the team now is like
ramping up on Windows, and they're
helping us make Codex better on Windows,
too. Which is admittedly earlier. Like,
just the model we we shipped last week
is the first model that natively
understands PowerShell. So, you know,
PowerShell being
uh the native like shell language on
Windows. So, yeah, it's been it's been
really awesome to see like the whole
company getting accelerated by Codex
like from
And you know, most obviously also
research and like improving how quickly
we train models and how well we do it,
and then even like uh design as we
talked about and and marketing. Like,
actually we're at this point now where
uh my product marketer is often also
making string changes just directly from
Slack. Or like updating docs directly
from Slack. These are amazing examples.
You guys are living at the bleeding edge
of what is possible, and this is how
other companies are going to work. Uh
just shipping again, what became the
number one app in the App Store and just
beloved all over the It just like took
over the I don't know, the world for at
least a week. Uh built, you said in 28
days and like I don't know, 10 days, 18
days just to get like the core of it
working.
>> Yeah, so it's like 18 days we had a
thing that employees were playing with,
and then 10 days later we were out. And
you said just a couple engineers. Yeah.
Two or three. Okay. And then Atlas, you
said it was took a week to build.
>> No, no, no. So, Atlas is not the whole
week, but Atlas was like
a really meaty project. Yeah. Um and so
I was talking to one of the engineers on
Atlas um
about like, you know, just how
what they use Codex for. And it's
basically like, we use Codex for
absolutely everything. I was like, okay.
Well, like you know, how would you how
would you measure the acceleration? And
so, basically the the answer I got back
was
previously would have taken two to three
weeks for two to three engineers, and
now it's like one engineer, one week. Do
you think this eventually moves to
non-engineers doing this sort of thing?
Like, does it have to be an engineer
building this thing? Could sort of built
been built by a I don't know, a PM or a
designer? I think we will very much get
to the point where Well, basically where
the boundaries are a little bit blurred.
Right? Like
I think we you're going to want someone
who's like understands the details of
what they're building, but what details
those are will evolve. Kind of like how
now like, if you're writing Swift, you
don't have to speak assembly.
You know, there's a handful of people in
the world, and it's really important
that they exist and like speak assembly.
Uh maybe more than a handful, right? But
that's like a specialized function that
like most
companies don't need to have.
So, I think we're just going to
naturally see like an increase in layers
of abstraction.
And then the cool thing is now we're
we're entering like the language layer
of abstraction, like natural language.
And then natural language itself is
really flexible.
Right? Like, you could have engineers
talking about like a plan, and then you
could have engineers talking about a
spec, and then you could have engineers
talking about just you know, a product
or an idea. So, I think we can also like
start moving up those layers of of
abstraction as well.
But
you know, I I do think this is going to
be gradual. I don't think it's going to
go up to like all of a sudden like
nobody ever writes anything and like,
you know, any code and it's just specs.
I think it's going to be much more like,
okay, we've set up our coding agent to
be really good at like previewing the
build or like at running tests. Maybe
that's the first part, right? That most
people have set up. And it's like, okay,
now we've set it up so that it can like
execute the build and it can like see
the results of its own changes, but you
know, we haven't yet built a good
integration harness so that it can like
in the case of Atlas, like By the way, I
don't know if they've done any of this
or not. I think they've done a lot of
this, but
you know, maybe the next stage is like
enable it to like load a few sample
pages to see how well those work, right?
So, then okay, now we're going to like
set up set up through that. And I think
for some time at least we're going to
have humans kind of curating like which
of these
connectors or systems or components that
it the agent needs to be good at talking
to.
And then, you know, in the future there
will be an even greater unlock where
Codex tells you how to set it up or
maybe sets itself up in a repo. What a
wild time to be alive.
Wow. I'm curious just the second-order
effects of this sort of thing, just how
quickly it is to build stuff. What does
that do? Does that mean distribution
becomes much, much more important? Does
it mean
uh ideas are just worth a lot more? It's
interesting to think about how quick how
that changes. I I'm curious what you
think. I still don't think ideas are
worth as much as
maybe some a lot of people think.
I think still think execution is really
hard, right? Like, you can build
something fast, but you still need to
execute well on it. Still needs to make
sense and be a coherent thing overall.
Um yeah, and distribution is massive.
Yeah. Just feels like everything else is
now more important. Everything that
isn't the building piece, which is
coming up with the idea, getting to
market, profit,
all that kind of stuff.
>> Yeah. I I think we might have been in
this weird temporary phase where
you know, for a while like you could you
could just it was so hard to build
product that
you mostly just had to be really good at
building product, and it maybe didn't
matter if you like had a intimate
understanding of a specific customer.
Um
but now I think we're getting to this
point where actually like, if I could
only choose like one thing to
understand, it would be like really
meaningful understanding of like
the problems that a certain customer
has.
Right? If I could only if I could only
go in with one like core competency.
So, I think that that's
that's ultimately still what's going to
matter most, right? Like, if you're
starting a new company today and you
have
like a really good understanding and
like network of customers that are
currently underserved by AI tools, I
think you're like you're set.
Right? Whereas if you're like good
[clears throat] at building like, you
know,
websites, but you don't have any
specific customer to build for, I think
you're in in for a much harder time.
Bullish on vertical AI startups is what
I'm hearing.
Yeah, I completely agree. There's like,
you know, there's like the general thing
that can solve a lot of problems, and
then there's like, we're going to solve
presentations incredibly well, and we're
going to understand the presentation
problem uh better than anyone, and we're
going to uh
plug into your workflows and and all
these other things that matter for a
very specific problem.
Okay. Incredible.
When you think about progress on Codex,
I imagine you have a bunch of evals, and
there's all these public benchmarks.
What's something you look at to tell
you, okay, we're making really good
progress? I imagine it's not going to be
the one thing, but what do you focus on?
What's like something you're trying to
push? What's like a KPI or two? One of
the things that I'm constantly reminding
myself of is that
a tool like Codex sort of naturally is a
tool that you would you know, become a
power user of.
Right? And so, we can accidentally spend
a lot of our time thinking about
features that are like very deep in the
user adoption journey.
Um and so, we can kind of end up
over-solving for that. And so, I think
it's like just critically important to
like go look at like your like D7
retention.
Right? Just go try the product. Like,
sign up from scratch again.
Um I have a few too many like ChatGPT
Pro accounts that I've just like
in order to maximally correctly dog food
like sign up for on my Gmail, and they
charge me like 200 bucks a month. I need
to expense those.
But uh
uh
you know, like I think just like
the feeling of being a user and the
early retention stats are still like
super important for us because you you
know, as much as this category is is
taking off, I think we're still in the
very early days of like people using
them.
Um
another thing that we do that
that may might be I think we might be
the most
like user feedback  social media
pilled team out there in this space
is like a few of us are like constantly
on Reddit
and Twitter.
And you know, there's uh there's praise
up there, and there's a lot of
complaints, but we take the complaints
like very seriously and look at them.
And I think that
again, because you can use a coding
agent for so many different things,
um it often is like kind of broken in
many sort of ways for like specific
behaviors.
Um and so, we we actually monitor a lot
just like what the vibes are on social
media pretty often. Especially I think
for for Twitter X, um
it's a little bit more hypey.
And then Reddit is a little more
negative, but real actually.
Um so,
I've started increasingly paying
attention to like how people are talking
about using Codex on Reddit actually.
This is uh important for people to know.
Which subreddits do you check most? Is
there like an r/Codex or I mean, the
algorithm's pretty good at surfacing
stuff, but like r/Codex is is there.
Okay. I'll take. Very interesting. And
then uh if people tag you on Twitter,
you still see that, but maybe not as
powerful as seeing it on Reddit.
Well, yeah, the interesting Well, the
thing with Twitter is it's a little bit
more one-to-one even if it's like in
public. Whereas like with Reddit,
there's a like really good upvoting
mechanics, and like maybe most people
are still not bots. Unclear.
Um so, you get you get like good signal
on what matters and what other people
think. So,
interestingly Atlas, I want to talk
about that briefly.
You guys launched Atlas. I tweeted
actually that I tried Atlas, and then
I I don't love the AI-only
search experience. I just like I just
want to Google sometimes or whatever.
Like, just waiting for the AI to give me
an answer. I'm like, I don't want to And
there was no way to switch, so I just
tweeted, "Hey, I'm I'm switching back. I
don't It's not a great." And I feel like
I made some PMs at OpenAI sad. And I saw
someone tweet, "Okay, we have this now."
Which I imagine was always part of the
plan. It's probably an example of we
just ship We got to ship stuff. See how
people use it, and then we figure it
out.
Uh so, I guess one is that
I don't know, is there anything there?
And two, I'm just curious, why are you
guys building a web browser? So, I I
worked on Atlas for a bit. Um I don't
work on it now. Um but
you know, like the a bit of the
narrative here for for me to tell my
story a bit was like, I was working on
this like screen sharing like pair
programming startup. Right? And then we
joined OpenAI.
And so, the idea was really to build a
contextual desktop assistant.
And the reason I believe that's so
important is because
I think that
it's really annoying to have to give all
your context to an assistant and then to
figure out how it can help you.
Right? And so, if it could just like
understand what you were trying to do,
then it could maximally accelerate you.
Um and so, I I I would you know, I still
think of Codex actually as like a
contextual assistant. Um from a little
bit of a different angle, like starting
with coding tasks.
But um
the
some of the some of the thinking at
least for me personally, I can't speak
for the whole product, but it was that
a lot of work is done in the web, and if
we could build a browser, then we could
be contextual for you, but in a much
more first-class way. We weren't hacking
like other desktop software which have
like very varied support for for like
what content they're rendering to the
accessibility tree. Uh, we wouldn't be
relying on screenshots, which are a
little bit slower and unreliable.
Instead, we we we could like be in the
rendering engine, right? And like
extract whatever we needed to to help
you. Um,
and also, I like to think of like, you
know, in video games, like, I don't know
if you've played like, I don't know, say
Halo, right? Like, you walk up to an
object. I mean, this is true for many
games. You press Now, it's been a long
time. This is embarrassing. Press X
and it just does the right thing, right?
And I was one of those guys who always
read the instruction manual for every
video game that I bought. And I remember
the first time I read about a contextual
action and I just thought it was like
this really cool idea. And, uh,
you know, the
the thing about a contextual action is
we need to know what you are attempting
to do. We have a little bit of context,
and then we can
and then we can help. Uh, and I think
this is critically important because,
you know, imagine this world that we
reach, right? Where where we have agents
that are helping you thousands of times
per day.
Um, imagine if the only way we could
tell you that we helped you is if we
could like push notify you.
So, you get a thousand push
notifications a day of an AI saying
like, "Hey, I did this thing. Do you
like it?" It gets super annoying, right?
Whereas, imagine going back to software
engineering, like, I was looking at a
dashboard and I noticed some like key
metric had like gone down.
And, you know, at that point in time, an
AI could like maybe go take a look and
then surface the fact that it has an
opinion on why this metric went down and
maybe a fix right there right when I'm
looking at the dashboard. Right? That
would be like that would much more keep
me in flow
and enable the agents to take action on
like many more things. So, in my mind,
like,
part of why I'm excited for us to have a
browser is that I think we have then
like much more context around like what
we should help with. Users have much
more control over what they want us to
look at. It's like, "Hey, if you want to
open If you want us to like take action
on something, you can open it in your AI
browser. If you don't, then you can open
it in your other browser." Right? So,
like really clear control and
boundaries. And then, we have the
ability to build UX that's like mixed
initiative so that we can surface
contextual actions to you like at the
time that they're helpful, as opposed to
just like randomly notifying you.
Hearing the vision for Codex being the
super assistant. It's not just there to
code for you. It's trying to do a lot
for you as a teammate and as this kind
of super teammate that makes you awesome
at work. So, I get this.
Speaking of that, are there other
non-engineering
common use cases for Codex? Just ways
that non-engineers We talked about it,
you know, designers prototyping,
building stuff. Are there any kind of
other unexpected ways people are using
Codex that aren't engineers? I mean,
there's a load of a load of unexpected
ways, but I think like most of what
we're seeing like real traction with
people using things are still for now
like very like
I would say coding adjacent or like sort
of tech-oriented places where there's
like a mature ecosystem. Um, or, you
know, maybe you're doing data data
analysis or something like that. I
personally am expecting that we're going
to see a lot more of that over time. Um,
but for now, like, we're keeping the
team like very focused on just coding
for now cuz there's so much more work to
do. For people that are thinking about
trying out Codex, is there like a
Does it work for all kinds of code
bases? Uh, what what code does it
support? If you're like, I don't know,
SAP, can you add Codex and start
building things? What's kind of like the
sweet spot? Where does it start to not
be amazing yet? This I'm really glad you
asked this question, actually, because
the best way to try Codex is to give it
your hardest tasks,
which is a little different than some of
the other coding agents. Like, you know,
some tools you might think, "Okay, let
me like start easy or just like, you
know, like vibe code something random
and decide if I like the tool." Whereas,
like, we're really building Codex to be
the like professional tool that you can
give your like hardest problems to.
Um, and you know, that writes like
high-quality code in your like enormous
code base that is in fact not perfect
right now.
So, yeah, I think if you're going to try
Codex, you want to try it on like a real
task that you have, and not necessarily
like dumb that task down to something
that's like trivial, but actually like,
you know, like, a good one would be like
you have a hard bug and you don't know
what what's causing that bug and you ask
Codex to like help figure that out. Or
like to implement that, you know, the
fix. I love that answer. Just give it
your hardest problem. I will say like,
you know, if you if you're like, "Hey,
okay, but well, the hardest problem I
have is that I need to build like a new
unicorn business." Like, obviously,
that, you know,
it's not going to work.
Uh, not yet. So, I think it's like give
it like the hardest problem, but
something that is still like one like
question, right? Or one task, um, to
start. That's if you're testing, and
then over time, you can learn how to use
it for like bigger things. Yeah, what
languages does does it support?
Basically, the way we've trained Codex
is like there's a distribution of
languages that we support, and it's like
fairly aligned with like the frequency
of these languages in the world. So,
unless you're writing some like very
esoteric language or like some private
language, it should do fine in your
language. If someone was just getting
started, is there a tip you could share
to help them be successful? Like, if you
could just whisper a little tip into
someone just setting up Codex for the
first time to help them have a really
good time.
What's something you'd whisper?
I might say try a few things in
parallel.
Right? So, you could try giving it a
hard task. Um,
maybe ask it to understand the code
base. Uh, formulate a plan with it
around an idea that you have, and kind
of build your way up from there. And
like, sort of the meta idea here is it's
again, it's like you're building trust
with a new teammate.
Right? And so, like, you wouldn't go to
a new teammate and just give them like,
"Hey, do this thing. Here's zero
context." You would start by like first
making sure they understand the code
base, and then you would like maybe
align on a plan and approach, and then
you would have them go off and do it bit
by bit.
Right? And I think if you use Codex in
that way, you'll just sort of naturally
start to understand like the different
ways of prompting it because it is it's
a super powerful like agent and model,
but it is it is a little bit different
to prompt Codex than other models. Just
a couple more questions. One, we touched
on this a little bit.
As AI does more and more coding, there's
always this question of should I learn
to code? And what do I should I spend
time doing this sort of thing?
For people that are trying to figure out
what to do with their career, especially
if they're into software engineering,
computer science, do you think there are
specific elements of computer science
that are more and more important to lean
into? Maybe things they don't need to
worry about. Like, what do you think
people should be leaning into skill-wise
in as this becomes more and more of a
thing in our workplace?
I think there's like a couple
angles you could go at this from.
Um, I think the
Well, the easiest one to think of at
least is just like be a doer of things.
Um, I think that, you know, with coding
agents um, getting better and better
over time, it's just what you can do as
even like someone in college or a new
grad is just like so much more than what
that was before. And so, I think you
just want to be taking advantage of
that.
And definitely when I'm looking at like
hiring folks who are earlier career,
it's like definitely something that I
think about is how
how productive are they using the latest
tools?
Right? They should be like super
productive. And if you think of it in
that way, they actually have like less
of a handicap than before versus a a
more senior career person because,
you know, the divide is actually getting
smaller because they've got these
amazing coding agents now. Um, so,
that's one thing, which is just like, I
guess the thing the advice is just like
learn about whatever you want, but just
make sure you spend time doing things,
not just like fulfilling homework
assignments, I guess.
I think the other side of it, though, is
that it's still deeply worth
understanding like what makes a good
like overall software system. So, I
still think that like skills like really
strong systems engineering skills
or even like really effective like
communication and collaboration with
your team. Skills like that, I think,
are are important. They're going to
continue to matter for for quite some
time. Like, I don't think it's going to
be like all of a sudden, uh,
the AI coding agents are just able to
build like perfect systems without your
help. I think it's going to look much
more gradual, where it's like,
"Okay, we have these AI coding agents.
They're able to validate their work."
It's still important and like that for
example, like, thinking of an engineer
who was working on Atlas since we were
talking about it, he set up Codex so
that it can like verify its own work,
which is a little bit non-trivial
because of the the nature of the Atlas
product. So, the way that he did that
was he actually prompted Codex like,
"Hey, why can't you verify your work?
Fix it." And like did that on a loop.
Right? And so,
you still like at various phases are
going to want a human in the loop to
like help configure the coding agent to
be effective. And so, I think like you
still want to be able to reason about
that. So, maybe it's like less important
that you can like
type really fast and like you understand
exactly how to write Not that anyone
writes a, you know, for each loop or
something, right? But, it is
or, you know, you don't need to know how
to implement like a specific algorithm.
But, I think you need to be able to
reason about the different systems and
like what makes like effective a
software engineering team effective. So,
I think that's uh the other really
important thing. And then like maybe the
last angle that you could take is
I think if you're on the frontier of
knowledge for a given thing,
I still think that's like deeply
interesting to go down. Partially
because that knowledge is still going to
be like
uh,
you know, agents aren't going to be as
good at that, but also partially because
I think that like by trying to advance
the frontier of a specific thing, you'll
actually like end up like being forced
to take advantage of coding agents and
like using them to accelerate your own
workflows as you go. What's an example
that when you when you talk about being
at the frontier of something? Codex
writes a lot of the code that helps like
manage its training runs, the key
infrastructure.
Uh, you know, we move pretty fast, and
so we have a Codex code review is like
catching a lot of mistakes. It's
actually caught some like pretty
interesting configuration mistakes.
And, uh, you know, we're starting to see
glimpses of the future where
we're actually starting to have Codex
even like be on call for its own
training, which is pretty interesting.
Um so, there's lots there.
Uh wait, what does that mean to be on
call for its own training? So, it's
running, it's training, and it's like,
"Oh, something broke. Someone needs" And
it it does it like alert people or it's
like, "Here, I'm going to fix the
problem and re- Yeah, this is an early
idea that we're like figuring out. But
the basic idea is that, you know, during
a training run, there's like a bunch of
graphs that like today like humans are
looking at and it's like really
important to like look at those. Um we
call this babysitting.
Because it's very expensive to train, I
imagine, and very important to move fast
and Exactly. And there's a lot of
there's a lot of systems underlying uh
the training run. And so, like a system
could go down or there could be an error
somewhere that gets introduced. And so,
we might need to like fix it or pause
things or I don't know, there's lots of
actions we might need to take. And so,
basically having Codex like run on a
loop to like evaluate how those charts
are moving over time,
um this sort of this idea that we have
to like how to enable us to like train
like way more efficiently. I love that.
This is very much along the lines of
this is the future of agents. It's Codex
isn't just for building code, right?
It's it's a lot more than that.
Yeah.
Okay. Last question. Uh being at OpenAI,
uh I can't not ask about your AGI
timeline and how far you think we are
from AGI. I know this isn't what you
work on,
but there's a lot of opinions, a lot of
I don't know, timelines. How far do you
think that we are from a
uh humanly human version of AI, whatever
that means to you? For me, I think that
it's a little bit about like when do we
see the acceleration curves kind of go
like this or I don't know which way I'm
mirrored here.
Right? When do we see the hockey stick?
And I think that the current limiting
factor, I mean, there's many, but I
think a current underappreciated
limiting factor is like literally human
typing speed or human multitasking speed
on like writing prompts.
Right? And like, you know, you were
talking about it's like you can have an
agent like watch all the work you're
doing, but if you don't have the agent
uh also validating its work,
then you're still bottlenecked on like,
can you go review all that code, right?
So, my view is that we need to um
unblock those productivity loops from
like humans having to prompt and humans
having to like about manually evaluate
all the work. And so, if we can like
rebuild systems to let the agent like be
default useful,
we'll start unlocking hockey sticks.
Unfortunately, I don't think that's
going to be binary. I think it's going
to be very dependent on what you're
building, right? So, like I would
imagine that like next year, if you're a
startup,
and you're building a new new pieces
like, you know, some new app or
something,
it'll be possible for you to set it up
on a stack where agents are like much
more self-sufficient
than not, right? But now, let's say I I
don't know, you mentioned SAP, right?
Let's say you work in SAP. Like they
have many like complex systems and
they're not going to be able to just
like get the agent to be self-sufficient
overnight in those systems. So, they're
going to have to slowly like maybe
replace systems or update systems
to allow the agent to like handle more
of the work end to end.
And so,
basically my sort of long answer to your
question, maybe boring answer, is that I
think starting next year, we're going to
see like early adopters like starting to
like hockey stick their productivity.
Um and then over the years that follow,
we're going to see larger and larger
companies like hockey stick their
productivity. And then somewhere in that
fuzzy middle is like when that hockey
sticking will be like
flowing back into the AI labs and that's
when we'll we'll basically be at the AGI
tier. I love this answer. It's very
practical and it's something that comes
up a lot on this podcast, just like the
time to review all the things AI is
doing is really annoying and a big
bottleneck. I love that you're working
on this because it's one thing to just
make coding much more efficient and do
that for people, it's another to
take care of that final step of, okay,
is this actually great? And that's so
interesting that your sense is that's
the limiting factor. It comes back to
your earlier point of
even if AI did not advance anymore, we
have so much more potential to unlock if
we uh
as we learn to use it more effectively.
Uh so, that is a really unique answer.
I've never heard that perspective on
what is the big unlock. Human typing
speed to review basically what AI is
doing for us. Mhm. So good. Okay. Uh
Alexander, we covered a lot of ground.
Is there anything that we haven't
covered? Is there anything you wanted to
share, maybe double down on before we
get to our very exciting lightning
round?
I think one thing is that the Codex team
is growing.
And uh as I was just saying, we're still
somewhat limited by human thinking speed
and human typing speed. We're working on
it. So, um
if you're an engineer um or a
salesperson or I'm hiring for product
product person,
uh please hit us up. I'm not sure the
best way to give contact info, but I
guess you can go to a jobs page or do
they have contact for you? Actually, do
you do listeners have contact for you?
Before they send me like, "Hey, I want
to apply to Codex." Uh I do have a
contact form at lennyrachitsky.com. I'm
afraid of all the amazing people that
are here
>> Okay. ping me, but there you go, we
could try that. Let's see how that goes.
>> yeah, or another maybe an easier way we
can edit all that out. Or if it's up to
you. But uh yeah, or I would just say
you can drop us a DM. Uh for example,
I'm amber rico on Twitter and hit me up
if you're interested in joining the
team. What a dream job for so many
people.
What's a sign they will I don't know,
what's like a way to filter people a
little bit so they're not flooding your
inbox? So, specifically if you want to
join the Codex team, then you need to be
a technical person who uses these tools.
And I think I would just ask yourself
the question,
uh hey, let's say, you know, I were to
join OpenAI and work on Codex
over the next 6 months, you know, and
crush it, what does the life of a
software engineer look like then? And I
think if you have an opinion on that,
you should apply. And if you
don't have an opinion on that and have
to think about it first,
you know, depending on how long you have
to think about it, I guess that would be
the filter, right? Like I think
there's a lot of people thinking about
the space and so, we're
we're very interested in folks who
sort of have already been thinking about
like what the future should look like
with agents. And like we don't have to
agree on where where we're going. But I
think we want people who like are very
passionate about the topic, I guess.
It's very rare to be working on a
product that has this much impact and is
at such a
bleeding edge of what's possible. It's a
what a cool role for the right person.
So, I'm it's awesome that you have an
opening and this audience is
a really good fit potentially for for
that role. So, I hope we find someone,
that would be incredible. With that,
we've reached our very exciting
lightning round. I've got five questions
for you, Alexander. Are you ready?
I don't know what these are, but I'm
excited. Let's do it. Uh they're uh the
same questions asked everyone except for
the last one. So, uh
probably not a surprise. I should
probably make them more more often a
surprise. Okay, first question, what are
a couple books that you recommend most
to other people? Two or three books that
come to mind.
I have been reading a lot of science
fiction recently. And I'm sure this has
been recommended before, but the
Culture.
I think it's Ian Banks is the name of
the author.
Part of why I love it is because it's
like
basically relatively recent writing
about a future with AI, but it's an
optimistic future with AI.
Um and I think, you know, a lot of
sci-fi is like fairly dystopian.
Um but this is like people uh sort of
the joke at least on the Culture
subreddit is that let me let me see if I
can get this right. It is a
like space communist utopia.
Or or like I think it's a gay space
communist utopia.
Um and uh I just think it's like really
fun to think about um like to use the
Culture as a way to think about like
what kind of world can we usher in and
like what decisions can we make today to
help usher in that world. Well, I've not
I I don't think anyone's recommended
that. I know you're reading, you
mentioned before we started recording,
Lord of the Rings right now. Uh if you
want another AI-ish
sci-fi book, uh have you read Fire Upon
the Deep?
No, I haven't.
>> Okay. It's uh incredibly good. It's like
uh a sci-fi space opera sort of epic
tale
with uh super intelligence.
Cool. Yeah, somewhat mostly not
optimistic, but somewhat optimistic.
Okay, next question. Is there a
favorite recent movie or TV show that
you've really enjoyed?
Yeah, there's an anime called Jujutsu
Kaisen,
which I really like. Um
again, it's got a kind of a slightly
dark topic of like demons.
Um but what I love about it is that the
hero is really nice. And I think there's
this new wave of like anime and cartoons
where
the protagonists are
really friendly and like people who care
about the world rather than being like
sort of like if you look at like some
older anime like that started the genre
like, you know, there was there was like
Evangelion
uh or Akira. And like those characters,
the protagonists are like deeply flawed,
like quite unhappy.
Um they they didn't start the genre, but
it was like a trend for a while to sort
of
poke fun at the idea that in these in
these cartoons, the protagonist was very
young but being given a ridiculous
amount of responsibility to like save
the world.
And so, there was kind of a a wave of
like
uh content that was like critiquing this
by making the character like basically
go through like serious like mental
issues in the middle of the show.
Um and I'm not saying this is better,
but at least it's quite fun to have like
these like really positive protagonists
or just trying to help everyone around
them. I love how much we're learning
about your personality hearing these
recommendations. Yeah. Nice
protagonists, optimistic futures. I
think you know, if you don't believe it,
you can't will it into existence. Mhm.
You need a balance. This is your
training data.
Is there a product you recently
discovered that you really love? Could
be an app, could be some clothing, could
be some kitchen gadget, tech gadget,
a hat.
Yeah, so I have been like quite into
uh you know, combustion engines
um and cars. Actually, the reason I came
to America initially was cuz I wanted to
work on like US aircraft. Um but you
know, now I work in software.
And so for the longest time I've
basically only had like quite old sports
cars.
Old just cuz they were more affordable.
And then recently
We got a Tesla instead.
And I have to say that I find the Tesla
software like quite inspiring.
In particular, it has like the
self-driving feature and you know, I've
mentioned a few times like today like I
think it's really interesting to think
about how to build like mixed initiative
software that makes you feel maximally
empowered as a human.
Maximally in control, but yet you're
getting a lot of help.
And I think they did a really good job.
With enabling sort of the car to drive
itself, but All these different ways
that you can adjust what it's doing
without turning off the self-driving. So
like you can accelerate and you know,
it'll like listen to that. You can turn
a knob to change its speed. You can
steer slightly. Um
I think it's a it's actually a master
class in like building an agent. That
Still leaves the human in control. This
reminds me Nick Turley's whole
mantra was are we maximally accelerated?
Yeah.
>> It was like it's completely infiltrated
everything at OpenAI which makes sense.
That tracks.
Uh two more questions. Do you have a
life motto that you often think about
come back to in work or in life that's
been helpful? I don't know if I have a
life motto, but maybe I can tell you
about the number one value
Company value from my startup. Love it.
Which is still something that sticks
with me, which is to be kind and candid.
That tracks.
Kind and candid. Wow. Yeah, and we had
to put them together because we
As founders realized that we
Often would be nice.
And it wasn't actually the right thing
to do.
We would like delay the difficult
conversations and we were not candid.
And so every time we would like remind
ourselves of this motto and then we
would become more candid and then 6
months later we would realize that we
were in fact not candid 6 months ago.
And we needed to be even more candid.
So then the question is like okay, like
How could how should we be candid? It's
like okay, well Let's let's think of
being candid as an act of kindness, but
also think of that both in terms of
doing it and willing ourselves to do it,
but also in terms of how we frame it to
people. That is a beautiful
way of summarizing how to how to lead
well. What's the The book about dare
challenge directly but care deeply.
Radical candor. Oh yeah, yeah, right.
Yeah. Yeah, so it's like another way of
thinking about radical candor. Okay,
last question. I was looking up your
last name just like hey, what's the
what's the story here? So your last name
is Imbrios. And I was talking to
ChatGPT.
And it told me the most famous
individuals with the surname are
The influential Greek poet and
psychoanalyst Andreas Imbrios.
And his relative the wealthy shipping
magnate and art collector George
Imbrios.
So the question is which of these two do
you most identify with?
The Greek poet and psychoanalyst or the
wealthy shipping magnate and art
collector?
I think it's it's going to have to be
the poet because Uh
He
He loved the island that our family's
from. Wait, you know these people? Okay,
this is not news to you. Okay.
>> Well, I mean it's an enormous family,
but it's like Greek. So you know, these
big families everyone like everyone's
your uncle. You know what I mean? Like
my mother's Malaysian and also like
everyone is my uncle or aunt in Malaysia
too if that makes sense. Yeah. But
Yeah, he he loved this island that the
family sort of like initiated from.
I believe I don't actually know where
that shipping magnate I think it was New
York or something, but anyway, we all
came from this island called Andros.
Which is a really beautiful place and
it's like there's more like livestock
there than than humans.
Not too many tourists go there.
But I think he like part of what I think
is really cool is like he published a
lot and a lot of his writing is about
like the beauty of that island, which I
think is super cool.
Wow, that was an amazing answer. Two
more questions. Where can folks find you
if they want to follow you online and
you know, maybe reach out and then how
can listeners be useful to you? I I'm
one of those people who has social media
only for the purposes of having work.
You know, my phone my phone turns black
and white at like 9:00 p.m. at night.
But yeah, so Twitter or X at nbrico.
And
yeah, if you post in r/codex I'll
probably see it.
So you know, you can go there.
How can listeners be useful?
I would say please try Codex.
Please share feedback. Let us know what
to improve. We pay a ton of ton of
attention to feedback. I think it's like
Honestly like the growth has been
amazing, but it's still very early
times.
So we still pay a lot of attention and
hope to do so forever.
And also I would say if you're
interested in in working On the future
of coding agents and then agents
generally, then please
Apply to our job site and or message me
in those social media places.
Alexander, this was awesome. I always
love meeting people working on AI
because it always feels like there's
very I don't know
Sterile, scary, mysterious thing. And
then you meet the people building these
tools and they're always just so
awesome. And you especially just so nice
and
uh As you like the examples you shared
optimism and kindness, you know, this is
what we want to be. This is these are
the kinds of people we want to be
building these tools that are going to
drive the future. So um I'm I'm really
thankful that you did this.
Um
Grateful to have met you and thank you
so much for being here.
Yeah, thanks so much for having me. This
is fun.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple podcast, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app.
Also, please consider giving us a rating
or leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennyspodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.